# CrossLingual_InformationRetrieval


Cross lingual Information retrieval is a subfield of Information retrieval dealing with retrieval of information in a language different from the language of the input query. For example, when the input query given by the user is in Spanish language, the relevant documents in English, Italian and other languages should also be retrieved. To achieve this, our CLIR system mainly focused on translation and expansion of the input query. The number of languages chosen for the document collection counts to 6. The input query has been translated to remaining 5 different languages and then the query is expanded by including the translated terms. Now the new expanded query is searched for in the indexed multi lingual indexed data collection and the relevant documents are retrieved. The IR model used for retrieval is Divergence from Randomness which is a type of probabilistic model. In this model, the weights of the term are computed by measuring the divergence between a term distribution produced by a random process and the actual term distribution. The relevant documents have not been displayed in the order they were retrieved. Instead, our ranking system will display relevant retrieved documents based on the language of the user’s query. For example, if the language of the input query is English, out of the retrieved relevant documents, boosting factor has been given to the documents that are originally in English. The User Interface also plays a key role in building a search system. Our UI has been designed to provide user some statistics such as the number of documents retrieved in different languages, the number of hash-tags available in the documents retrieved, the locations mentioned in the retrieved documents in the form of pie chart and bar chart. The UI is designed also to provide the user with a custom search option where the results can be filtered based on language, date, hash-tags etc. As the data collection chosen for the project is tweets, the date, the user handle, the profile picture of the user, the original tweet, the url’s, the date of the tweet, the language of the tweet, the time of the tweet have been retrieved from the indexed data.
